Education

Oct 2021
PhD in Communication
University of Navarra, Spain
 
Oct 2018
Master’s in Digital Communication Leadership (Media Management)
Aalborg University, Denmark &
University of Salzburg, Austria;
exchange at Queensland University of Technology, Australia
 
Dec 2018
BA in Communication and Journalism
Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
 
Jun 2013
BSc in Computer Science
Federal University of São Paulo, Brazil;
exchange at Masaryk University, Czech Republic


Experience 

AI Mentor (Consultant)
Bastion/Google
Sep 2024 – Now
 
●             Responsible for mentoring Australian media organizations in the deployment of Generative AI tools in their newsrooms. I have guided companies such as Private Media, Australian Chinese News, North East Media, and Gazette News in adopting AI to improve storytelling, optimize workflows, and enhance audience engagement. This hands-on experience with diverse stakeholders highlights my ability to translate AI research and knowledge into practical, impactful solutions that align with organizational  and audience goals.
Lecturer (Assistant Professor)
Macquarie University
Mar 2024 – Now
 
●             Responsible for researching and teaching multiplatform journalism, focusing on data-driven storytelling, media technology and innovation. Developed and delivered courses integrating theoretical frameworks with practical skills, preparing students for the evolving media landscape. Engaging in interdisciplinary research projects and fostering industry partnerships.
Senior Researcher (Consultant)
International Center for Journalists (ICFJ)
Jan 2024 – Mar 2024
●             Leading a research project on Brazilian news outlets’ responses to disinformation and contributing to a broader international study focused on international news organizations. Also adding to the trailblazing ICFJ Online Violence Project which is developing policies and tools to combat the problem of gender-based abuse toward journalists.
Postdoctoral Researcher
University of Amsterdam — Netherlands
Sep 2022 – Mar 2024
●             Conducting research on Responsible AI as part of the broader Humane (AI) project. Host of the Humane Conversations. Contributing to the overall project in terms of events, research meetings, and guest-lectures. Collaborating with the Horizon Europe project AI4Media, engaging with industry partners like RAI and BSC.
Research Associate
Federal University of São Paulo — Brazil
Jan 2022 – Now
●             Co-founder of the Digital Media and Society Observatory (DMSO), a research and education hub tasked with tackling online harm and information disorder. Delivering new theoretical and practical insights in this field through studies, talks, and media interviews. Pro bono.
Project Manager/Tech Lead
InfoAmazonia — Brazil
Jun 2021 – Sep 2023
●             Managing data-driven and web projects for InfoAmazonia and its partners, PlenaMata and Amazon Underworld. PlenaMata is celebrated for combating deforestation and receiving two awards for its innovation. Amazon Underworld is a vast collaborative effort dedicated to investigating criminal activities in the Amazon Forest.
Researcher/Journalist
*desinformante — Brazil
July 2021 – Aug 2022
●      Producing content and supporting the team to follow main debates and analysis on the events involving efforts against mis-/disinformation in Brazil and globally.
Data Quality Lead Consultant
Internews — USA
Dec 2021 – May 2022
●      Supporting the team to conduct data collection and data analysis of the main rumors and narratives about COVID-19 in 10 countries under the Rooted in Trust project.
Researcher – Data Journalism, Business Model and Collaboration
JOLT/University of Navarra – Spain
Dec 2018 – Jan 2022
●            Exploring digital technology's potential for journalism, providing theoretical insights, technical innovations, and best practices through collaborative projects with industry partners to enhance the news landscape.
Disinformation Researcher/Consultant
Avaaz – USA
Aug 2018 – Nov 2018/Sep 2020 – Mar 2021
 
●            Supporting the team in the development of research related to information disorder in Brazil. Analyzing and compiling methodologies. Data analysis of Twitter and Facebook content. Monitoring events and identifying opportunities for campaigns to protect Brazil from mis-/disinformation.
Product Owner/Data Journalist
La Nación — Argentina
Jan 2020 – Mar 2020
 
●             Investigating and identifying requirements to develop the first AI news product. Project management of news products. Reporting stories using data.
Investigative Journalist
ethiXBase – Singapore
Jan 2017 – Jan 2019
 
●            Performing due diligence of companies and special interest persons to verify that there are no issues, scandals, or corruption problems. Development of reports and translation of files (Spanish and Portuguese).
Communications Assistant
Copenhagen Business School (CBS) – Denmark
May 2017 – Feb 2018
 
●            Development of tutorials and surveys about financial data. Translation of financial data to content that is easily accessible. Interviewing companies about topics related to financial data in their daily business.
Communication and Project Manager
Hevea – Denmark
Jun 2017 – Jan 2018
 
●             Management of the catalogs of products for distributors. Tracking and reporting progress of ongoing communication projects. Production of content for social media platforms.
Previous Positions
Production Assistant
Olympic Channel/OBS – Brazil
Jan 2016 – Sep 2016	Sports Journalist
Tijuca Tênis Clube – Brazil
2016
Professional Educator
SENAC SP – Brazil
2014	Digital Marketing Project Manager
Johnson & Johnson – Brazil
2013
Assistant for Business Administration
Embraer – Brazil (2012)	Assistant for IT Logistics
Ericsson – Brazil (2010)
